---
layout: post
title:  "Otaku Reads: Grimgar of Fantasy and Ash Volume 3 (LN)"
date:   2017-11-03 12:28:11 -0500
excerpt: "I have finally finished reading Grimgar of Fantasy and Ash volume 3. You better get yourself a cup of {beverage of choice}, because this is going to be a long one. As a prelude of what’s to come, I’ll just say this: I hate this novel series, and I have lost all faith in the author. I do not want to continue supporting this person by buying any more novels in this series. I have no idea how or why it was approved for an anime, but I applaud the work of that team on turning it into one of the best anime series I’ve watched given the ineptitude of the source material. Today, I will be venting my frustrations about this novel. As such, I will be discussing plot points by necessity, so let this serve as your <strong>SPOILER WARNING</strong>."
---
<p>I have finally finished reading Grimgar of Fantasy and Ash volume 3. You better get yourself a cup of {beverage of choice}, because this is going to be a long one. As a prelude of what’s to come, I’ll just say this: I hate this novel series, and I have lost all faith in the author. I do not want to continue supporting this person by buying any more novels in this series. I have no idea how or why it was approved for an anime, but I applaud the work of that team on turning it into one of the best anime series I’ve watched given the ineptitude of the source material. Today, I will be venting my frustrations about this novel. As such, I will be discussing plot points by necessity, so let this serve as your <strong>SPOILER WARNING</strong>.</p>
<p>Why this is the worst volume in the series thus far: </p>
<p>First, the beginning is SUPREMELY dry. It took me days to force my way through reading it. Why is it so dry? Because Haruhiro is extremely boring and I’m very tired of the author focusing so heavily on repeatedly giving us his thoughts on every little thing that happens. Look, by this point, we already know what kind of a person Haruhiro is. We don’t need to know exactly what he’s thinking all the time, nor do you need to continue to hammer home is character traits over and over again every single chapter. Also, WAY too much time is spent on his frustrating relationship with Ranta. WE GET IT ALREADY, Ranta’s a (very unbelievable and poorly written) douchebag. We don’t need to be reminded of that twenty million times. In the end, I shouldn’t have to read halfway through the book to get to the interesting content.</p>
<p>Second, why the HELL would you introduce such a MEANINGLESS character to “kill” off? I’ve read enough stories to have doubts when a character thinks another is dead, but really, what is the purpose? Why is it even remotely important that WE know about Haruhiro’s love life in the time before the story AT THIS MOMENT. Choco does NOTHING to the story other than prove a distraction and a waste of time. The author does absolutely nothing to get the audience to connect to her deeply enough for her “death” to be of any import. She is nothing more than a tacky afterthought who, even in “death”, has no real impact on Haruhiro.</p>
<p>Finally, this book commits one of the utmost worst sins of any novel or piece of media: Ends abruptly on a cliffhanger, without any resolution whatsoever. The book just ends. It, for lack of a better word, is incomplete. You’ll need to read the next one to get a proper resolution. I don’t like normal cliffhangers on a good day, but cliffhangers that cut off the continuity of a story are the worst kind of sin a novel can commit.</p>
<p>That is merely the tip of the iceburg. There is a lot more I could discuss, but I’ll leave it there for now. In the end, I think I’ve decided that I’ll wait for a potential season 2 of the anime, as it is miles and beyond better than this junk. Oh, and I <em>really</em> hate the art style of the manga series, so I won’t continue that one, either.</p>
<p>Moving onwards, as The Rising of the Shield Hero volume 9 has now officially been delayed to November 15 according to Amazon, I will be starting up Re:Zero. I have volumes 1-5 now, though I’ll note that Amazon lost my order of 2-4 and had to send overnight replacements. Man, do I hope this one reads as well as the anime was to watch. I’d hate to be disappointed again.</p>