---
layout: post
title:  "Otaku Reads: Overlord Volume 5"
date:   2017-10-08 22:50:06 -0500
excerpt: "Well, I've finally been slowly churning through my collection of manga and light novels I've accrued over the past few years. I decided at the start of the year to not buy any more unless I've read the volumes I have of that series. Thus we get to today's topic: Overlord Volume 5: Men of the Kingdom Part 1."
---
<p>Well, I've finally been slowly churning through my collection of manga and light novels I've accrued over the past few years. I decided at the start of the year to not buy any more unless I've read the volumes I have of that series. Thus we get to today's topic: Overlord Volume 5: Men of the Kingdom Part 1.</p>
<p>Overlord is a light novel series I've been very much in to since the anime. I was thrilled when I found out the novels were being translated and have now read all of them through this most recent release. I'll note that unlike most other light novels, this series releases in hard-bound copy instead of paperback.</p>
<p>Volume 5, like 4, does not feature much of the titular Overlord. The focus is on side characters residing in a capital city and the confluence of events that bring everyone together.</p>
<p>While I am a bit disappointed that we have yet again not gotten more of the titular MC in this volume, the story arc is still very interesting and still features an extremely overpowered character. I found this one to be far more engaging and compelling than the Lizard Men arc of the previous volume, and I am glad that it is set up for a part 2 where hopefully Ainz will have an actual role to play. The side character stories are nice, but I would really like to get back to the MC now.</p>
<p>Anyway, the next book I'm reading is Grimgar of Fantasy and Ash volume 2 light novel, which I believe includes the whole Kobold arc. Honestly, while I do really like the anime, I'm not too keen on the light novels and especially the manga. I think the art's ugly, especially compared to the anime, but that's a discussion for another time. I'll let you know what I think once I've finished it.</p>