---
title: 'Otaku on Keto: 8 Weeks and Over 30 Pounds'
date: 2017-10-13 01:05:04 Z
layout: post
comments: true
excerpt: Friday, October 13, 2017 marks 8 full weeks of being on a ketogenic diet.
  I have lost over 30 pounds thus far (you can refer to the weight page in the top
  navigation for details). It has been a heck of a journey.
---

<p>Friday, October 13, 2017 marks 8 full weeks of being on a ketogenic diet. I have lost over 30 pounds thus far (you can refer to the weight page in the top navigation for details). It has been a heck of a journey.</p>
<p>The biggest struggle I've faced since the last post at 5 weeks has been a cold I developed a couple weeks ago that had a really long tail to it. This kept me from talking my usual walk in the mornings, and now I've sort of just adapted my schedule around not walking in the morning. That said, I've lost more weight in this period than I have thus far. While I was sick, I lost weight a bit faster than in the first week. I don't know if this was the direct result of the cold, but I am thankful for it, as the weight has stayed off. Early in 2015 I was down to about 315-320, and stayed around there the rest of that year. All this weight I'm losing now was accumulated basically since the start of 2016. That's scary when you think about it. I ate a LOT of pizzas.</p>
<p>I have also been noticing some errors in my weight caused by the scale. There are days where I have mysteriously gained, like, a pound, then the next day I'm down 2. This speaks to me of calibration errors because I move the scale into position before using it. The manufacturer's website says that this can happen with fluctuations up to +5 lbs, and said to activate the device before weighing yourself to let it calibrate. I've started doing this, so I'll find out soon enough if those odd one-day peaks were because of that. From looking at my weight graph, there's been 5 days that may be in error. I'd rather not have any more.</p>
<p>As I have lost so much weight and my measurements have gone down pretty considerably, I decided while I was at the store today to pick up some new clothes. When I started this diet, and what prompted it in the first place, was that my XXXL shirts were starting to show my belly. They weren't long enough anymore. This scared the crap out of me. I was also in size 50 pants, a line I swore long ago I'd never reach. Today, I picked up what I knew would fit either now or within the next couple of weeks, so I got three XXL shirts (two T's and a long-sleeve) and a couple of size 44 pants. Both are "relaxed fit" and are jeans (My pant waist is actually 46 inches right now, but they only sell up to 44 at my Target). I'll note here that I already have a different pair of 44 blue jeans I bought when I was down near 315, and those fit now. The new black pair is super tight on the thights, but "technically" fits. It should be fine in a couple weeks. The new blue pair is extra-flexible, so it stretches very comfortably in the legs, though I'll need a belt for it sooner. Which reminds me that I'll need a smaller belt at some point relatively soon. The next time I buy pants may not be until 40, or perhaps 38. I don't know yet. Sort of depends on how long I want to keep wearing these. As for the shirts, they fit flawlessly. I have a bunch of XXL shirts already, with some of them being more form-fitting than others. I'm holding off on buying XL shirts for now, though I do own one cotton long-sleeve shirt that's at least 15 years old that does fit (much to my surprise).</p>
<p>Anyway, that's it for this update, I'll give another progress report in another few weeks. Hopefully I'll be under 325 by then.</p>