---
title: That feeling when things get fixed
date: 2017-09-05 22:20:17 Z
layout: post
comments: true
excerpt: Today I had the "pleasure" of taking care of two pretty major issues in my
  life. One applies to my current job. The other applies to how I spend money.
---

<p>Today I had the "pleasure" of taking care of two pretty major issues in my life. One applies to my current job. The other applies to how I spend money.</p>
<p>I'll start with my issue with money, as it's not as technical as the other thing and perhaps more understandable. I was having issues using my PayPal Business Debit Card ever since I had a failed credit payment at GameStop on August 22nd. No payment using the card in Credit mode was going through. Now, I've had my card for a long time, and a PayPal account for even longer, and my backup payment method has been solid the entire time. There was no good reason for that purchase to fail on Credit. It went through on Debit. Further credit payments had failed every time I tried to use the card. </p>
<p>Now, I called about this issue on Sunday and was told the following: Since I had received payments from people, the card prevents split-tender transactions until that money has been available in the account for a day or so as part of their fraud protection. That explains, perhaps, at least one failed transaction, as I had gotten payments from my apartmentmates in order to pay their shares of the electricity bill. That does NOT apply to the GameStop transaction on August 22nd. So I waited.</p>
<p>Yesterday and today I attempted transactions on Amazon with the card, even telling Amazon to use the card in Debit mode. Those transactions failed. The only money I had added to the account was PayPal's own Cash Back, which I have NEVER in the past had any issues with using in split-tender transactions (those using the remaining PayPal balance and pulling from my backup payment method for the rest). So, today I called back. The representative this time did reiterate the truth behind the previous fraud protections, but did note that they should not have applied to the purchases made recently. I said that this problem defeats the purpose of having the card in the first place, to which she agreed and looked into it for me. She said that there was some issue with the card pulling money from the backup payment method, as if it wasn't there. This is strange, I told her, as I had made payments very recently without the card through the online payment service that directly pulled from my backup source. My account is in excellent standing, I'll add. I've never had a transaction overdraw my backup funding source. In the end she submitted my transaction history for a review (which it passed) and reset the information for the card (I guess she reapplied the backup payment or something). Everything was sorted out and I could try using the card again. I did (buying volumes 4 and 5 of Log Horizon: West Wind Brigade on Amazon) and the payment went through just fine.</p>
<p>In the end that entire experience was not what I expected. What I was expecting was a lock of the card due to making much larger purchases than normal - fraud protection freezing the card, basically. Not completely wrong, but still there appeared to be bugs in the system.</p>
<p>So, that was the easy-ish thing to talk about. The work-related one is a bit more technical. So, I've been hired to work on a website in my department part-time. It's been a bit of a crapshoot at the start due to not having the access rights I need to do my job. I was given a WordPress admin log-in and that was it. No access to the server control panel or FTP. FTP would be pointless when working at home, though, as the University prevents FTP access to their servers from off-site. Still, admin control panel access is necessary for troubleshooting and backups in particular, let alone DNS access. My greatest fear going into this is exactly what happened: A typo in code in the WordPress admin panel would break the site completely and require direct file access through the server control panel. I spent my morning and early afternoon waiting on KU IT to get access sorted out. The person in charge of the website, by the way, is out of the country this semester. Not only that, he does not know the information to access the control panel. I had to have KU IT reset the password and had to call someone to have them tell me the username and password.</p>
<p>All of that...to add one character (an "F") to one file ("functions.php") in the child theme the site uses to get the site working again. It was down about 5 hours. If I had proper control panel access from the start, it would have been down less than 3 minutes. Yes, the "F" I was missing was the first "F" in the word "function," which was part of a code block I cut &amp; paste into functions.php via the appearance editor in order to, of all things, remove the email field from comments. All I wanted was name and comment with a reCaptcha for the few pages that have the ability to leave comments.</p>
<p>Okay, there are my explanations and rants about what's gone on today keeping me from doing what I've wanted to focus on: Thesis work. Let's hope tomorrow yields fewer issues.</p>