---
layout: post
title:  "Otaku Learns Japanese 1 – The Journey Thus Far"
date:   2017-11-20 21:45:28 -0500
excerpt: "Hello everyone! I’ve been meaning to make a sizeable post about my studies for a little while now, I’ve just been quite busy. Fortunately, I’ve finally gotten around to it! For those who haven’t been following me on Twitter or here on the website, I decided to learn Japanese way back in late July, and have been going through with it every day since."
---
<p>Hello everyone! I’ve been meaning to make a sizeable post about my studies for a little while now, I’ve just been quite busy. Fortunately, I’ve finally gotten around to it! For those who haven’t been following me on Twitter or here on the website, I decided to learn Japanese way back in late July, and have been going through with it every day since.</p>
<h1 id="-why-learn-japanese-"><strong>Why Learn Japanese?</strong></h1>
<p>I’ve sort of wanted to learn the language for quite some time. I’ve been watching subtitled anime since 2013, and had been my primary source of hearing the language. I realized within the months leading up to my decision that I had picked up just enough of the vocabulary to feel somewhat annoyed with subtitles at times. I was even starting to recognize the original Japanese wording of some words in English-translated light novels and manga. I began to want those books to not translate the common words (especially honorifics) that I had picked up and that I’m sure most people who are in to watching subtitled anime know.</p>
<p>What pushed me over the edge was a recommendation for a textbook and two small Kanji handbooks from a streamer I watch, EpicNameBro, who has been to and worked in Japan and was responding to the question of what he used to learn the language. The textbook was Japanese for Everyone, and the handbooks were Kanji Starter 1 and 2. I pretty much decided on a whim to pick them up and see where it took me.</p>
<p>My ultimate goal is to be able to understand spoken Japanese in anime and be able to read manga and light novels in Japanese. My focus is not particularly about being able to write or speak, though they will be natural by-products and can become a main focus in the long-term.</p>
<h1 id="-the-journey-begins-"><strong>The Journey Begins</strong></h1>
<p>So, I bought the books for around $35 total. I was thrilled that these books were so cheap. Now, I had taken French classes through High School and a refresher semester in my undergrad, so I had a good idea of what worked for me. I bought a bunch of flash cards and was ready to go.</p>
<p>Then I realized that the textbook doesn’t even “teach” kana. It gives the Hiragana and Katakana charts, says “learn them,” then uses them exclusively for the pre-lesson dialogues at lesson 3. I was…not particularly happy. So, I made flash cards. Of each individual kana. Yeah, that didn’t go over too well. I sort of got the Hiragana to a point, but Katakana was just like NOPE. I manage to get through the first lesson’s exercises, but stop part way through lesson 2.</p>
<p>I was NOT happy using what is honestly a VERY outdated textbook, so I did some actual research into Japanese textbooks and what would be best for a self-learner starting from scratch. Genki I thought at the time was rather expensive and designed more for college courses. In mid-August I decided to buy a lot of items in a batch, though: Quickstudy Japanese Vocabulary and Grammar laminates, Heisig’s Remembering the Kana, and Trombley’s Japanese textbooks Kana from Zero!, Japanese from Zero! 1-4, and Kanji from Zero! 1.</p>
<h1 id="-a-fresh-start-"><strong>A Fresh Start</strong></h1>
<p>I went through Heisig’s Remembering the Kana rather quickly. The method was helpful, though I didn’t quite feel that I had truly gotten the kana down. Kana from Zero! teaches stroke order and has writing practice space and is what did manage to finally get my Hiragana down pat, though Katakana (to this day) I’m still a bit rough with.</p>
<p>I will note that even the author of Kana from Zero! says to NOT get it if getting Japanese from Zero! 1 and 2, as the entire book is incorporated in those two textbooks. I was completely fine with this. I wanted to know the kana before starting up the textbooks and wanted the repetition to help reinforce my knowledge.</p>
<p>While I was working my way through JfZ! 1, I was researching potential additional sources for learning the language and stumbled upon a website called WaniKani. WaniKani is a website that uses spaced-repetition to teach Kanji and vocabulary that uses that Kanji. It is designed to take, well, let’s say over a year at fastest with over two being reasonable. It does NOT teach how to write Kanji, though, and does NOT teach English-&gt;Japanese. I’m not interested in translating English to Japanese anyway, so I’m fine with that (though there IS a user-made website called KaniWani that does just that). I started up my journey on WaniKani in early September.</p>
<h1 id="-a-textbook-stall-and-electronic-apps-"><strong>A Textbook Stall and Electronic Apps</strong></h1>
<p>One of the things that the users of WaniKani constantly say is to not focus at all on textbook or grammar learning until around level 10 in order to reduce the vocabulary workload textbooks require you to memorize early on. Now, by that time I had sort of, well, FINISHED Japanese from Zero! 1’s exercises (still hadn’t memorized ALL the vocab in it) and was about to move on to book 2. During this time I also gave in and bought Genki 1 and 2 with the workbooks and answer key, along with Remembering the Kanji and The Complete Guide to Japanese Kanji. Also picked up some double-sided brush pens and notebooks with squares for kanji writing practice.</p>
<p>I decided to take a step back until I had leveled up a bit in WaniKani, but DID decide to at least try to reinforce what I had learned in JfZ! 1 by using the website DuoLingo. DuoLingo offers free Japanese grammar and vocabulary lessons in a set curriculum and has a mobile app. In my experience with it, the mobile app actually asks HARDER questions. Due to some issues I had with it, I ended up replacing DuoLingo with LingoDeer, a mobile-only app which does the same sort of thing, just better and with better pacing. LingoDeer is also much more thorough in what it teaches and constantly brings in older vocab and grammar as the lessons progress to make sure you know them. It also has Kanji-only mode which helps me learn some more kanji and their readings in context.</p>
<p>A quick note on the Genki books I bought: Genki I does actually teach the kana, technically, and it teaches kanji, which is fantastic. The textbook itself has exercises focusing on group activities, though, so I have to use the separate workbook for adequate practice. I have gone through the first three lessons, though I haven’t memorized all of the vocab yet. Really, though, I think that they try to cover too much too fast without adequate enough review (and I REALLY rely on repetition through review to solidify what I’ve learned). I’ll get through them, but I’ll likely not focus on them until after finishing what I have of Japanese from Zero!.</p>
<h1 id="-an-app-stall-and-a-textbook-resurgence-"><strong>An App Stall and a Textbook Resurgence</strong></h1>
<p>I’ll make note now that I have a LOT of actual, physical flash cards. I had made them for every new word in JfZ! 1 and part of the start of Genki 1. I had gotten to level 10 on WaniKani finally and was keenly aware I should start up textbook work again. So, I decided that before starting up any textbook exercises, I needed to actually make sure I memorized the vocab. So, I went through the HUGE stack of several hundred cards. I pulled out every one I had learned already and tossed them out. That left me with a stack around half the size, but still around 250 cards. I split them up as best I could into sets of around 20. Each day, I went through and reviewed a new set PLUS the previous sets. That said, I’ve only reviewed J-&gt;E, not E-&gt;J, which I should get around to at some point soon. At this point, I’ve finished off the whole deck and have now added what I don’t know from Japanese from Zero! 2’s first three lessons.
Much to my surprise, when I got back into JfZ! 2 and was working on exercises in lessons 2 and 3, I actually could remember the grammar and was able to translate the sentences easily. It seems that my LingoDeer lessons had gone through that content and reinforced those grammar points quite well.  </p>
<h1 id="-today-progress-thus-far-"><strong>Today – Progress Thus Far</strong></h1>
<p>As of today, here is my current progress:<br>WaniKani:<br>Current Level: 11<br>343 Kanji learned<br>950 vocab learned<br>Japanese for Everyone: Partially through lesson 2<br>Genki 1: Up through lesson 3, Workbook through half of lesson 3<br>Remembering the Kana: COMPLETED<br>Kana from Zero!: COMPLETED<br>Japanese from Zero! 1: COMPLETED<br>Japanese from Zero! 2: Up through lesson 3<br>LingoDeer: Completed through Unit 24 (Weather) of 65</p>
<p>In just under 4 months since the very start of the journey, I think that this is significant progress. I know from experience when I was taking French classes years ago that what I would “learn” in the classroom for tests was not going to stick around very long. I’ve always been great at individual classes, but that information has rarely stuck. Can I dredge up a good chunk of what I had learned of French? Yeah, sure, given enough time. With Japanese, I don’t just want this to happen. I want to truly learn the language. This requires by necessity a lot of repetition and seeing the same information presented in different ways. I do NOT regret having a shelf halfway full of Japanese textbooks and reference books! I mean, heck, I’ve reviewed Katakana fully twice and am going through it a THIRD time in JfZ! 2 and am STILL nowhere near where I am with Hiragana. It is all necessary in my mind in order to gain the concrete understanding I wish to have for the long term. I will not quit before my goals are met, even if it takes 10+ years. I will learn this language.</p>