---
title: Five Weeks on Keto
date: 2017-09-25 00:17:23 Z
layout: post
comments: true
excerpt: As of this past Friday, September 22, 2017, I've been on my Keto diet for
  five weeks. To be completely honest, I have found it to be one of the easiest things
  I have ever done in my life. The work involved has merely been to buy different
  foods at the store than what I had been buying and, importantly, cook daily. That
  cooking daily part was and is the only real "chore" of this diet, but it's something
  I should have been doing anyway.
---

<p>As of this past Friday, September 22, 2017, I've been on my Keto diet for five weeks. To be completely honest, I have found it to be one of the easiest things I have ever done in my life. The work involved has merely been to buy different foods at the store than what I had been buying and, importantly, cook daily. That cooking daily part was and is the only real "chore" of this diet, but it's something I should have been doing anyway.</p>
<p>Before I started this diet, I was incredibly, and I mean INCREDIBLY, lazy and low on energy throughout the day. Coffee in the morning was absolutely required when I would eventually get up around 9:00 am. I would crash in the early afternoon, most often, and would only truly feel "awake" by dinner. That makes going to bed a bit difficult when it feels like I had just gotten the energy to get things done. I was also so lazy that I just would not cook, to the point where even getting up to go microwave a TV dinner or bake a pizza was difficult to convince myself to do. Instead, I'd very often order delivery pizza from Papa Johns and, more recently, Pizza Hut. They probably think I've either moved away or died at this point, especially at Papa Johns, seeing as how I was getting to the point of ordering pizza up to three times per week. I was eating ENTIRE large and extra large pizzas, by the way, one time even two extra-larges in one night. My breakfast would be cereal, perhaps with a bagel and cream cheese (I've got a toaster near my desk, and a breakfast sandwich maker). Lunch was a PB&amp;J with a LOT of PB&amp;J, pretzels, and maybe an apple if I'd felt like buying a bag of them.</p>
<p>Needless to say, since I wasn't active whatsoever, I balooned up so much that my XXXL T-Shirts were starting to show the skin of my stomach. I knew that enough was enough. I was already scared that the scale at home out in Virginia said "Err" when I got on it (it has a weight limit of 350 lbs) this past December.</p>
<p>I honestly do not know how heavy my maximum weight got. How do I not really know? I made changes to my diet before starting Keto. I drastically reduced the pizza I was ordering and bought Amy's brand TV dinners (all vegetarian, by the way) for about a month or so. That one change to my body used to the concept of eating less before I ended up starting Keto. I know that I lost weight from that reduction to Calories, I just don't know how much. What I do know is that when I did order a scale that would support up to 400 lbs, I came in at 367 lbs. The morning I started my diet, I was just under 367.</p>
<p>That first week saw large losses (not ALL of which is water, by the way) before stabilizing for a couple of weeks. My body changed far more than just the loss in weight. My mood and energy levels were elevated dramatically. I found that getting up to cook breakfast in the morning came easier and easier, and cooking dinner was no trouble at all. I started eating a variety of meats at dinner and was cycling through meats and cheeses for lunch each week. Very quickly, I realized that the coffee I was drinking in the morning was not necessary to have the energy to cook breakfast. Heck, it wasn't really needed as things stood. I wasn't using the boost of energy from the coffee. Further, my afternoon crashes became very minor dips. Those minor dips were the coffee wearing off.</p>
<p>I was concerned about quitting coffee completely and having to go through withdrawl while still adjusting to a diet change. My solution was to use that energy boost. I started walking. I ordered a FitBit Blaze and began walking daily (well, let's say at least 6 days a week). Did my weight loss increase by adding that exercise? No. It slowed down, with days of no loss whatsoever. I had also started to make a Crystal Light concotion with salt substitute added for Potassium. The day after I started drinking it, I retained a lot of water weight, which quickly left the next two days.</p>
<p>How is that happening? How could I NOT be losing more weight by introducing walking with my diet. I've had days of negative net Calories (assuming that FitBit actually accurately measures that Calorie loss from exercise). Regardless of the accuracy of the energy expended from walking, one would think I'd see larger weight loss. Here's the thing: I was SUPREMELY out of shape, and walking in particular always results in pain, be it in the ankles, legs, or pads of the feet, back, or all of the above. My first walk was on September 5th. I lost 2.2 lbs in two days. I then lost nothing the next two. My weight was loss was slow and had gains until I finally got down under 350 lbs. Even then, that was on the 16th. To be honest, looking at my graph of the weight loss, if one ignores the first week or so with extra water losses, the loss has been steady and has not changed much at all due to the walking. My only explanation is that the "extra" loss I would expect is being added as muscle mass. I know that my walks have progressively gotten easier and extra muscle mass is likely the reason. That said, muscle doesn't usually grow quite that quickly, perhaps a full pound every two weeks to a month.</p>
<p>I suppose what I'm getting at is an inherent issue with the amount of estimated Calories are being burned from the walk. I did a walk on a treadmill not too long ago. I remember after 3 miles it said I'd burned something like 150 calories or some absurdly low number. My FitBit claimed over 1,000. The FitBit, I'll note, adds what it THINKS is your base metabolic rate to all of its calorie calculations, but it is NEVER explained if the calorie burn counts in its excercise modes add BMR. Based on my own personal data thus far, using MyFitnessPal to track my food intake minus the calorie burn from my FitBit from excercise via a linked account, MFP states that I should technically be losing 6.24 lbs per week, which is ALARMINGLY high, by the way. My "actual" total average loss over 5 weeks? 3.5 lbs per week (about 1% of my body weight), including the initial loss spike and I have seen absolutely no extra losses after nearly 4 weeks of walking. Now, it may happen at some point, but for now I'm just not confident in the numbers. If the walking is inherently insignificant, why bother walking?</p>
<p>All that said, I'm just one person, and tracking my losses over 5 weeks, with walkinkg for just under 4, is not sufficient to make any statistical analyses. At this point, I cannot truly say that there is no impact from walking. I would need to walk for three monnths and NOT walk for three months (or more for both).</p>
<p>No matter what, I after being on this diet for 5 weeks now, I am absolutely ready to go for the next 5 weeks. I want to be under 300 lbs before the end of the year and I am absolutely going to see that happen.</p>