---
layout: post
title:  "Announcement - Changes Soon to Come"
comments: true
date:   2018-07-04 11:28:02 -0500
excerpt: "Changes are coming to the Otaku Blog. The URL will remain the same, but the entire site will be rebuilt from scratch. For those unaware, this website for a little under a year has been built and hosted with SquareSpace. Now that I know a lot more about website development and am comfortable with using Jekyll and GitHub Pages (via my Portfolio site), I have decided to stop using SquareSpace to host this blog."
---
<p>Changes are coming to the Otaku Blog. The URL will remain the same, but the entire site will be rebuilt from scratch. For those unaware, this website for a little under a year has been built and hosted with SquareSpace. Now that I know a lot more about website development and am comfortable with using Jekyll and GitHub Pages (via my Portfolio site), I have decided to stop using SquareSpace to host this blog.</p><p>Moving away from SquareSpace will save me a LOT of money in the long run, as I'll only need to pay for the domain (GitHub Pages hosting is FREE), as opposed to the current $236 yearly hosting cost. While SquareSpace is nice for those who don't want to go through the effort of developing a site from scratch, the cost for me is prohibitive at this point in time. I simply cannot afford to renew it going forward. I will be immediately working on the replacement Jekyll blog, and ideally want all features currently available on the site to be in the new version. It should end up looking very similar to what it looks like now, just built from scratch with Jekyll and hosted for free through GitHub Pages. In the interim, I will link to the default URL of the GitHub Pages once I set up the project and start working on the site. Of course, once I make the change live on this domain, I will be updating my Portfolio to reflect that. Look forward to all of this shortly. My goal is to have the site built and the transition made before my flight home at the end of next week. This is going to be one wild ride.</p>