---
layout: post
title:  "Otaku Talks - It's Bloggin' Time"
comments: true
date:   2018-02-03 22:27:44 -0500
excerpt: "Alright, so this is going to be a more general blog post where I'll be talking about my life and what's been going on recently. It's been some time since making any real posts here, so it's about time to get back into it."
---
<p>Alright, so this is going to be a more general blog post where I'll be talking about my life and what's been going on recently. It's been some time since making any real posts here, so it's about time to get back into it.</p><p>So, first off, I posted that my weight loss progress is continuing, and that I've met my initial 300 lb goal. I had wanted to hit it in time for my flight out to Virginia for my winter vacation, but I didn't quite make it. I did make it before Christmas, though, so there's that. My flight was quite literally the day after the big power outage at the Atlanta airport, which was where I would catch a connecting flight. Fortunately, even though my departing flight into ATL was delayed a fair bit, it was not longer than my layover for my flight to ORF, which was on-time.</p><p>My vacation went well, despite being on a competing diet compared to my mother. She's on Forks over Knives, a plant-based diet where most of the energy comes from starchy plants like potatoes, beans, etc. Yeah, can't have that on Keto. I basically ended up eating basically the same as I usually do out here in Kansas. Christmas was interesting, though.</p><p>On Christmas day, my mother decided to cheat in order to have some turkey. She made mashed cauliflower and Portuguese-style peas that I could have, as well as a bunch of carb-ladden sides and a couple of pies for her and our guests. Her boyfriend made the turkey, and he brought his brother and mother (over 90 years old!). It was our first large(ish) gathering together in the new house, as it was just the two of us last year. Regardless, I still had like 4 times the amount of carbs than usual and was up 2 lbs the next day, but it seems my ketosis did not break from it. Nothing about my weight patterns changed because of it, so I'm thinking it was more of a sudden increase in calories, as well as timing of eating that impacted my weight ever so briefly...and yes, I totally had incredibly THIN slices of the pies my mother made: Pecan w/ blackstrap molasses and Maple Pumpkin. I had the Pecan for several days (without the crust, mind you), and it didn't really impact my ketosis. Overall my trip did see my loss slow down, but I expected that. It's the holidays! I was eating more calories than usual!</p><p>Besides food, I was able to finally just relax for a while. I was able to pull back, disconnect a bit, and was able to decompress. As for gifts, I received a boxed set of The Legend of Zelda manga series, a copy of The Legend of Zelda: Art &amp; Artifacts, a keyboard, a mouse, some movies, Game of Thrones season 7, and an Echo Dot over the course of my birthday and Christmas. The only thing I brought back with me, though, was the Dot. I got my mother a number of movies for Christmas, mainly ones we had on VHS already so that we could get rid of the old tapes, but I also went ahead and bought (and assembled) two bookcases to get the remaining book boxes and a box of records, which had yet to be unpacked due to lack of shelving and were just sitting around in the den for over a year now, emptied out. Needless to say, I was SORE. So very sore.</p><p>Then there was a blizzard, and I helped shovel the snow afterwards. I'm just glad it hit well enough before my flight back to not impact things. Last year a snow storm cancelled my flight back to Kansas and screwed everything up. Not so this time, but I spent even more time sore because of it.</p><p>The flight back went completely smoothly. There were no delays, and I even arrived a little early. Everything in my room was fine and survived my time away. My eyes, of course, had to get used to the size of my screens, as I'd been on my laptop for several weeks.</p><p>In the month since returning, I have managed to get a lot done and have been very busy. For starters, I am teaching an intro Biology lab three times a week, with two of those on Wednesdays, and I have to attend the lectures, and have a weekly meeting. I'm having to go to campus every weekday now. I'm also BLASTING my way through my thesis. Going into this semester I had done more work than entire semesters prior (which can be seen as a good thing or bad thing). I have continued working diligently on it, and I can finally say that there is light at the end of the tunnel. I can see the end nearing. I will be defending this semester. My advisor says that at my current pace I may be able to defend in late March. I'll hold him to that. To do this, I'm basically working on it over the weekends. There's really no rest for the weary. I've been sleeping QUITE well lately, as I've essentially been burning the candle at both ends.</p><p>In the evenings over the past while, I've been reading. In particular, I've been reading both normal books, manga, and light novels. Prior to my winter vacation, I had been reading Oathbringer, book 3 of The Stormlight Archive. It was the primary reason for not continuing the Otaku Reads series, as I wasn't really reading any light novels or manga during that time. It was an amazing book, and very long. I then started up Dan Brown's Origin in time for my trip home. I finished that one in a few days, and thought it was alright. While I was home, I ordered a copy of The Saga of Tanya the Evil volume 1, an actual light novel. I didn't post about it because I was on vacation, so let this serve as the cliff notes: The anime was great, the book is even better, but I won't get the manga version. I then barely managed to read though the 10 volume set of The Legend of Zelda manga series, which were interesting re-tellings of the stories of a number of the games. They were okay, though trying to tell the story of an entire Zelda game in one or two volumes is quite honestly a fool's errand. They rush through the stories way too fast for my liking. Upon returning back from my vacation, I finally got around to reading The Rising of the Shield Hero vol 9, which was more of what I've come to enjoy in that series. I read through volume 3 of How to Build a Dungeon, which was, shall we say, again more of what I've come to enjoy in that series *cough*. Next up was My Hero Academia 10, which I was looking forward to since we somehow have moved beyond the Anime with the English translations of the manga and the story has really picked up lately. After all of that, we've arrived at what I've been reading quite recently. I've moved back to novels for a bit as I read through K. F. Breene's The Warrior Chronicles series. I had read Chosen a very long time ago through Kindle Unlimited, and remembered that it was both a thing that existed and was supposed to be part of a series. After finding out the series was complete, I bought the whole 6 book set through Kindle. I have re-read Chosen (a very rare thing indeed, me reading a book a second time), and am nearly finished with Hunted. The books are great, and I enjoy the candid use of language. They are, however, a lot shorter than what I'm used to with novels, so I expect to be finished with the series by around the middle of the month. Looking ahead, I'll be reading Death March to the Parallel World Rhapsody volume 4 next, followed by Overlord volume 6, and Log Horizon volume 9, all of which are sitting on my desk waiting for me to finish The Warrior Chronicles.</p><p>All of that talk of what I've been reading gets me to a topic I've been thinking about lately: I am hopelessly out-of-date on many of the manga and light novel series that I own, many of which I haven't even started reading yet. Even of the series I have read, I'm way behind on buying the most recent volumes *and having the time to read them.* Right now there are about 8 series I can consider myself as "actively" reading and getting new volumes are a guarantee the day they release: Overlord, Death March Rhapsody, Log Horizon, My Hero Academia, The Rising of the Shield Hero, No Game No Life, The Saga of Tanya the Evil, and How to Build a Dungeon. There are at least just as many series I've read that I've not bought the recent volumes of, and a bunch more that I haven't even started reading yet. Here's the kicker: By the time I finish reading the current volumes of my "actively" reading set, something new tends to be out from that set, which delays me reading the older content. Even if I do somehow manage to read everything I haven't read, the sheer scale of my collection is such that I am so far behind on purchases it would cost easily over $1000 to do a full update, consisting of over 100 new volumes which I may not actually have enough space for on my current shelves. That's a problem for another day, though. My resolution last year was kept, and it continues into this year: I may only buy new volumes of what I've read / am actively reading, though it's getting to the point where even a full update on that front is a bit much.</p><p>Anyway, that's enough rambling on about things. This post has been sitting in my drafts for a couple weeks, so it's time to get it posted. In future I may do more topic-based blogs, speaking of just my reading or just my activities.</p>