---
title: Otaku Talks - July Update
date: 2018-07-20 16:30:00 -0400
layout: post
comments: true
excerpt: I have finished moving! Everything went smoothly and there is quite a bit to discuss, so off we go!
---

I have finished moving! Everything went smoothly and there is quite a bit to discuss, so off we go!

For those unaware, I have moved back home to Virginia after finally finishing off my Masters degree. The process of moving quite literally halfway across the country from Kansas to Virginia took quite a lot of preparation. I decided early on that I would fly out, but getting my stuff out was a bit of a tougher decision. I ultimately decided to get a Relocube, a relatively small storage unit that fits in a parking space which I could pack, lock, and unload myself, while the company just gets it to me and hauls it to my destination. For moving what was essentially a single room of stuff, it seemed the best option. 

My packing started a little over a month prior to the flight on July 13th, though it really picked up in the days prior to the Relocube arriving. I had a ton of boxes already, but needed a few more of specific sizes and types, specifically a TV moving box for my older 40" TV and an XL Heavy Duty box for my computer case. I took two trips to Home Depot on the weekend prior to pick up those boxes as well as some Small and XSmall boxes, which helped out a lot with the books I was hauling.

The Relocube arrived on the Tuesday, July 10th, and was parked in an open spot in the parking lot in front of my apartment building. Yes, this meant that I had to haul all of my stuff down from the third floor of a building without an elevator to load the thing. I managed to get everything out over Tuesday and Wednesday in about 8 or so hours of work. Note that it was the middle of a heatwave, too, with the highs of both days being 100F. I was relieved and sore afterwards, having to have managed to pack everything in such a way that there was no chance of things falling on their own, yet enough room to shift and settle. The only real issue was how bored I was on the Thursday without as much to do outside of some cleaning.

The flights out on Friday the 13th went smoothly. There were a few minor delays along the way, but nothing too major. This was my first time flying while in the 230lb range, and the first flights I've had window seats for, and the experience was so much better than it used to be. Between flights in Atlanta, I had time to eat at TGI Fridays - a bacon cheeseburger on lettuce instead of a bun with a side salad without croutons. It was the best burger I'd had since my holiday visit home (aka the ONLY burger I've had at a restaurant since my holiday visit home). I arrived in Norfolk just after 11:00 pm.

Now, while I had made it back home, my stuff was still not to get here until the start of the next week. On the very first day back home, my mother's boyfriend took us and his brother out to breakfast and we took a drive out to the more rural areas of Virginia Beach. My mother had to pick up mail for her organization at a PO box at the post office out by the courthouse, and then the plan was to head to the nice Krouger supermarket that's out that way. Well, the plan didn't quite go so smoothly. We, frankly, got a bit lost for a bit. We ended up going in the opposite direction of the supermarket and making a BIG loop around the rural farms near the area called Pungo. Since we were all the out there, we stopped at a blueberry farm and went blueberry picking, grabbing 3.5 lbs of fresh blueberries for $9, which I paid for. We did manage to get to the supermarket eventually, and the whole experience lasted the whole of the day.

Fortunately that was the only "big" day prior to my Relocube arriving on Tuesday, July 17th. I was fortunate enough to have it arrive early in the day. Was was surprising to me was that I had the whole thing unloaded in just under an hour. What a difference not having to go up and down a bunch of stairs and cooler weather can do. Being a bit stronger after the previous loading experience helped out a bit, too, as the boxes seemed lighter to me while unloading than during loading. Fortunately, the only "damage" caused was that my office chair settled and pinned itself by poking a leg into a box, ripping a big hole in the process, though nothing in the box itself broke, and some boxes did manage to push the backing out of one of my bookcases, which I fixed by hammering in more nails.

Of course, the biggest concern was about the state of my computer. See, I had decided that I would pack up my desktop having removed only the hard drives, graphics card, and the power supply unit. The motherboard, processor, CPU cooler, memory, case fans, and cables all stayed assembled in the case when I packed it in its gigantic box. My monitors were also a concern, as they were only wrapped in anti-static bubblewrap and in a box with other things such as the arms for my office chair. I did not really find out that everything was perfectly fine until the next day, Wednesday the 18th, when my delivery of two IKEA desktops and 8 legs arrived. The office as it was when I got here had absolutely no space for a computer setup, so I got the two desks to arrange in an L shape, and they are working wonderfully. Once I assembled the desks, reassembled my computer, hooked up my monitors, and pulled out my 50" TV, I was able to confirm that everything was in working order. That said, though, I do have a bit of a space and power limitation in this room as it is currently arranged. I do not currently have my consoles set up for recording, right now, either. At the moment, many of my consoles (the Switch, PS4 w/PSVR, PS3, XBONE, and SNES Classic) are in the den next to my office hooked up to a 42" 3D TV. My 50" TV in the office has the older Nintendo consoles hooked up to it at the moment (the Wii U, Wii, Gamecube, and N64).

As for my bookcases and all of my wonderful books, LNs, manga, and amiibo, they are all in the office with me. I had the choice of hauling the bookcases up to my bedroom or having them down in the office, and I chose down here in the office. A lot of series are shifted around from where they were, and I have added in things that were here at home which I frankly forgot about having. I'll be updating my collection page shortly with the additions.

I have basically finished my unpacking at this point, with most everything have a place. I am grateful for the successful move out here, but do not look forward to having another big move any time in the near future. Now, while I said that I would start streaming on Twitch starting next week, as it turns out my mother is taking the week off for her vacation, and as such, my own schedule will likely be up in the air that week, so at the very least I will not be starting to stream next week.

In other, somewhat sadder news, the reviews are in on the paper I submitted to the KU Paleontological Contributions based on my thesis, and it came back as requiring major revisions. After reading the comments of both reviewers, though, it seems like it's more like a relatively large number of smaller revisions and clarifications that are needed to address the "major" concerns. I was planning on starting work on those revisions next week, but this is a process that will last at least a month or two. The concerns and comments are much appreciated and will make the work better as a whole, even if I do not quite agree with all of them.

To end off, let's discuss what I've been reading this past month. First off, I noticed that I never really spoke about what I thought about How a Realist Hero Rebuilt the Kingdom and Arifureta, and you know, I think that's how I'll keep things when talking about what I've been reading. It is safe to assume that if I DON'T like something, I'm going to talk at length about what I don't like about it. Those that I find entertaining and read through entirely are ones I enjoy. With that in mind, this last month I started reading many new series, all of which I do plan on continuing to read as new volumes release in English going forward and all of which are the eBook versions. The series I've read are: Didn't I Say to Make My Abilities Average in the Next Life!? (1-2, 3 preordered), The Master of Ragnarok & Blesser of Einherjar (1-2), So I'm a Spider, So What? (1-2), and The Faraway Paladin (1-4). Right now, I am starting off reading yet another series, Clockwork Planet, which I have to volume 3. I have seen the anime of Clockwork Planet, and it really does intrigue me enough to want to read through the LNs. I am also looking forward to reading Lazy Dungeon Master volume 1, which releases in early August.

As it is getting a little difficult to parse the series I'm actively reading right now versus what I've dropped, what I've read and haven't read, etc., I will be reworking the collection page to add some clarity on that front. That said, there are about 13 ongoing series I'm currently following with intentions of buying with the release of each new volume, 14 with the new one I'll be adding in August, so it's a lot to keep track of. I'll try and keep you all posted.

With that, I think I've rambled on for long enough. Time to say our farewells until next time. The goal for the next month is to keep reading and reduce my backlog, of course, and to work on getting my website development business going, hopefully making some money in the process.