---
title: Otaku Talks - April Update
date: 2018-04-25 22:22:46 Z
layout: post
comments: true
excerpt: Well, it’s been some time since the last update for the website, and there
  is a lot to discuss.
---

<p>Well, it’s been some time since the last update for the website, and there is a lot to discuss.</p><p>First off, I am now officially under 250 lbs now. The next milestone is my “realistic” goal of 220 lbs, the point my BMI will no longer be obese. That said, I plan on continuing the diet with the dream to be under 200 lbs. We’ll see if the diet alone will get me there.</p><p>Next off, I will FINALLY be having my Masters Thesis Defense on May 1st. It has been a very long road to get to this point. The manuscript is over 170 pages in total. For those wondering, it is a trace fossil paper where I identify and describe in great detail the trace fossils on slabs from a certain locality. I’ll probably discuss it more once it is published. The Thesis will be open access eventually, and the published paper will be open access from the journal. I’ll post that information once it’s available. It’ll be super expensive to publish in the journal, though.</p><p>I’ve really been blitzing that paper these past couple of months, so a lot of my “personal life” stuff has been put on the back burner. I have managed to read some LNs and manga, specifically Log Horizon volume 10, Log Horizon: The West Wind Brigade 6-8, The Saga of Tanya the Evil 2, The Rising of the Shield Hero 10, Monster Musume 13, My Hero Academia 12, and That Time I Got Reincarnated as a Slime 1 (currently reading 2). Pretty big list. Lots of long names, too. Heck, I know at some point I know I finally read through Sword Art Online LN 1. Will probably get to 2+ after finishing Slime 2. There are regrettably few volumes of series I’m actively reading releasing soon. Death March to the Parallel World Rhapsody 5 and Overlord 7 both release on May 22, and My Hero Academia 13 on June 5, but nothing really before that. Should be able to get through perhaps volume 4 or 5 of SAO by then. We’ll see.</p><p>As for games, I am finally going through and have almost completed Persona 5. It’s an experience, to say the least. Over 80 hours recorded on it thus far. Messed around with Surviving Mars a bit, too, though it’s a bit meh due to every colony ending up looking and feeling the same. Skyrim VR also released and I picked it up (despite also having bought a PSVR specifically for it earlier), I just wish I had more time for it. The Rift is also not as comfortable as the PSVR, though it’s worth using it for the mods and the much better graphics.</p><p>Anyway, that’s my update. As usual, I’ll try and update more often, but we’ll see if I really do so.</p>