---
layout: post
title:  "Otaku Talks - June 29, 2018 Update"
date:   2018-06-29 19:13:27 -0500
excerpt: "Time again for another update, and yet again there’s a lot to catch up on. From finishing my thesis to working on a brand new website, we’ve got a lot to cover today. Let’s get to it."
---
<p>Time again for another update, and yet again there’s a lot to catch up on. From finishing my thesis to working on a brand new website, we’ve got a lot to cover today. Let’s get to it.</p><p>First off, CELEBRATION! I finally finished my thesis, defended, and have OFFICIALLY graduated with my M.S. in Geology from the University of Kansas. I will be linking to the thesis itself once it finishes publishing and made public. The paper has also been submitted to the KU Paleontological Contributions for publication as a peer-reviewed scholarly article. That will take a lot longer to become available, but it will be free to the public once published. Expect that perhaps by early next year (yes, these things take a LONG time). This entire experience took a very long time to get through, and I am relieved to be through it now. I am very appreciative to my advisor, especially, for the extended time spent with me this past semester to get everything in order.</p><p>Moving on, my diet has continued to work well for me. Progress has slowed, though continues. To date I’ve lost 133 lbs. Only 13 left to my “goal” of 220 lbs, which is the border where my BMI becomes “Overweight” as opposed to “Obese.” I will likely never have a “Normal” BMI due to my overall build, as I’d need to be under 184 lbs. I’d be really happy with under 200 lbs. Clearly, I’m not going to “end” my diet when I hit 220 lbs. I’ll be going as far as the diet will take me, even if that does mean that I end up a “normal” weight.</p><p>As I have now graduated, it is now time to move on to thinking of how I’ll earn a living going forward. What I’ve ultimately decided is that I want to do freelance web development. I’ve always enjoyed working on websites, and I was hired to work on (and continue to work on) websites in my department at KU. In order to better work on my development skills, I have decided to work on making a Portfolio website. The link has been added to the navigation at the top of this site. The site is hosted with GitHub Pages for free, so I only had to register the domain. I was surprised that I was able to get my name as a .com url.</p><p>As for updates to this site, I have updated the weight and collection pages with most recent information. The biggest update in the Collections page is that I have started buying and reading eBook versions of LNs through Amazon Kindle, namely How a Realist Hero Rebuilt the Kingdom and Arifureta: From Commonplace to World’s Strongest. Both of these series I have found to be fantastic and have started following the English publisher, J-Novel Club, which only releases eBooks. There are a few other series I’m looking at once I finish off Arifureta (working through volume 6 now, undecided on getting Arifureta Zero). I’ll keep you all posted. Speaking of which, prior to getting the eBooks, I did manage to get through a fair bit of my backlog of manga and light novels. Still haven’t read about 1/3rd of my collection, though, and several series are very outdated at this point. I’m keeping track of what’s missing, though, and have plans for when I’ll update every series.</p><p>The last thing to discuss is what’s coming up in the near future. First off, I’m moving back to Virginia around mid-July. I’ve been quite busy with the move prep, but am otherwise ready for it. Getting back to Virginia will mean I’ll have an actual separate office space! In the mean time, though, I have put a pause to my Japanese studies. Sort of need a bit of a vacation from it for a little bit as I work on my portfolio website, which I want looking fantastic by the time I move. After I’ve gotten settled and have begun seeking work with web development, I have decided that I will start streaming on Twitch again! I’ll finally be able to have at least some semblance of time on my hands, at least for a bit, where I can have regular streams for a few hours a day on weekdays. Part of what’s pushing me to stream is the idea of not keeping all of my eggs in one basket by doing freelance website work. Whichever one ends up working out the best will be what I end up doing more of over time. Simple as that.</p><p>Well, if you’ve made it through this really long post, thank you so much for being here and reading. As I usually say, but haven’t really done, I do want to keep the site updated with new posts a bit more often. Now that I have graduated, I do have a bit more time on my hands to work on it. Let’s hope that holds true this time. Thanks again. I’ll see you on the next one.</p>